Improved the text for a front page of the wiki (#37)
xsleaks/wiki: content/_index.md

bookToc: false
---

# XS-Leaks Wiki
## Overview

> Cross-Site Leaks (XS-Leaks, XSLeaks) are a class of vulnerabilities derived from browser side-channel techniques [^side-channel]. These are similar to Cross-Site Request Forgery [^csrf] (CSRF) techniques but instead of allowing other websites to take actions on behalf of a user, they can be used to infer information about them. This is done by exploiting a variety of features built into browsers which might be maintained to preserve backwards compatibility. Though, sometimes new features are added to browsers regardless the introduction of potential cross-site leaks [^STTF] as the benefits are considered to overweight the downsides.

Author: > Why is backwards compatibility mentioned here? How is this relevant to XS-Leaks?

It's not. Maybe something like this: 

```suggestion
Cross-Site Leaks (XS-Leaks, XSLeaks) are a class of vulnerabilities derived from browser side-channel techniques [^side-channel]. These are similar to Cross-Site Request Forgery [^csrf] (CSRF) techniques but instead of allowing other websites to take actions on behalf of a user, they can be used to infer information about them. This is done by exploiting a variety of features built into browsers [^browser-features].

...

[^browser-features]: These features might be maintained to preserve backwards compatibility, though, sometimes new features are added to browsers regardless the introduction of potential cross-site leaks [^STTF] as the benefits are considered to overweight the downsides.
```

Not sure yet, how footnote inside a footnote will work. Maybe merge these two.

@ddworken WDYT?

> Cross-Site Leaks (XS-Leaks, XSLeaks) are a class of vulnerabilities derived from browser side-channel techniques [^side-channel]. These are similar to Cross-Site Request Forgery [^csrf] (CSRF) techniques but instead of allowing other websites to take actions on behalf of a user, they can be used to infer information about them. This is done by exploiting a variety of features built into browsers which might be maintained to preserve backwards compatibility. Though, sometimes new features are added to browsers regardless the introduction of potential cross-site leaks [^STTF] as the benefits are considered to overweight the downsides.

Reviewer: Yeah, sounds good to me (assuming it renders in a reasonable way). I included that little blurb because I think it is worth explaining why browsers don't "just fix it". But moving it down to deprioritize it sounds good to me. 

(Also tweaked the phrasing in your above suggestion, but that suggestion LGTM)

> Cross-Site Leaks (XS-Leaks, XSLeaks) are a class of vulnerabilities derived from browser side-channel techniques [^side-channel]. These are similar to Cross-Site Request Forgery [^csrf] (CSRF) techniques but instead of allowing other websites to take actions on behalf of a user, they can be used to infer information about them. This is done by exploiting a variety of features built into browsers which might be maintained to preserve backwards compatibility. Though, sometimes new features are added to browsers regardless the introduction of potential cross-site leaks [^STTF] as the benefits are considered to overweight the downsides.

Reviewer 2: Oh I see. That was a good intention, I just didn't even consider backwards compatibility when thinking about it since the underlying issue is way beyond that (solution: create a new web! :) )

I would also address the second issue, I think it's important given the context we are contributing to this wiki.

## The principle of an XS-Leak

Websites interacting with each other is core to the behavior of the web. Browsers provide a wide variety of interfaces for such interaction between different web applications. These interfaces have different security measures built on top to try to constrain websites behavior (e.g. the [Same-Origin Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy)). XS-Leaks take advantage of small pieces of information that can leak during these interactions in order to infer sensitive information about users such as their data on other websites, operating systems they use or internal networks they are connected to. 

These pieces of information usually have a binary form and are called oracles. These oracles usually answer with *YES* and *NO* to cleverly prepared questions. For example, such an oracle could be asked:

> Does the word *existent* exist in the search results?

In a vulnerable application, the above might be equivalent to:

> Does the query *?query=existent* return HTTP200 status code while the query *query=non-existent* does not?"

> The latter oracle could be formed from an [Error Event]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/error-events.md" >}}) XS-Leak and which could be abused by attackers to infer information about the user.

Reviewer 2: The latter? What was the first oracle?

I usually avoid the word latter as it forces the reader to think and sometimes read again the last three sentences to understand what latter refers to. Why don't we say:
```suggestion
This oracle could be formed from an [Error Event]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/error-events.md" >}}) XS-Leak, abused by attackers to infer information about the user.
```

Author: There are two oracles: "Does the word existent exist in the search results?" and "Does a query ?query=existent return HTTP200 status code while ?query=non-existent does not?"

If it's not clear that these two are the oracles, we should work on this part since that's the intention to give an insight what oracle is, and why it's called oracle.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, it seemed that "Does the word existent exist in the search results?" was an abstracted presentation and "Does a query ?query=existent return HTTP200 status code while ?query=non-existent does not?" the exemplified oracle (the oracle is the status code). So only one oracle?

I think the example is great, I just thought it was addressing 1 oracle, and "latter" could be avoided here.

Author: The first oracle is able to answer questions like: `Does the word existent exist in the search results?` but does not necessarily be able to answer `Does a query ?query=existent return HTTP200 status code while ?query=non-existent does not?` since these two are completely different types of information. But, if the questions are equivalent for a vulnerable application, two different oracles would be able to give the correct answer 😅  

The first oracle:
`Does <X> exist in <Y>?`

The second oracle:
`Does <X> return HTTP200?`

Reviewer 2: Okay, seems alright

Reviewer: Hmm, I think I agree with Manuel here. In my opinion, those seem like the same oracle and "the second oracle" is just a more concrete example of how the first oracle could exist. So I'd also vote for changing to "this" even though it loses a bit of specificity (but makes it easier to read and understand).

Author: I will think about improving it in other iterations.

{{< hint info >}}

Suppose that *bank.com* has an API endpoint that returns data about a user's receipt for a given query.

1. The page *evil.com* could attempt to load the URL *bank.com/my_receipt?q=groceries* as a script, since by default, the browser will attach cookies with the request.
2. If the user has recently bought groceries, it will load successfully (because of the HTTP200 status code).
3. But if they haven't, it will trigger an [Error Event]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/error-events.md" >}}) (because of the HTTP404 status code) that *evil.com* can listen for.
4. By repeating this with different queries, the attacker could infer a significant amount of information about the user's transaction history.
{{< /hint >}}

In the above example, two websites on two different origins (*evil.com* and *bank.com*) were interacting through an API that browsers allow websites to use. None of this exploited a bug in the browser or a bug in *bank.com*. But nonetheless, it allowed *evil.com* to gain some small amount of information about the user on *bank.com*.  

## Root Cause of XS-Leaks

> The root cause of most XS-Leaks is inherent to the design of the web. Oftentimes applications are vulnerable to some cross-site information leaks without having done anything wrong. Because it is hard [^hard-to-fix] to universally fix the root cause of XS-Leaks at the browser level, browsers are implementing various [Defense Mechanisms]({{< ref "defenses" >}}) that offer applications ways of mitigating some of the issues. Many of these mitigations are used via websites opting into a more restrictive security model, usually through certain HTTP headers (e.g. *[Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy]({{< ref "./docs/defenses/opt-in/coop.md">}}): same-origin*), which often times must be combined to achieve the desired outcome.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The root cause of most XS-Leaks is inherent to the design of the web. Oftentimes applications are vulnerable to some cross-site information leaks without having done anything wrong. Because it is hard [^hard-to-fix] to universally fix the root cause of XS-Leaks at the browser level, browsers are implementing various [Defense Mechanisms]({{< ref "defenses" >}}) that offer applications ways of mitigating some of these issues. Many of these mitigations are used via websites opting into a more restrictive security model, usually through certain HTTP headers (e.g. *[Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy]({{< ref "./docs/defenses/opt-in/coop.md">}}): same-origin*), which often times must be combined to achieve the desired outcome.
```

> We can distinguish different sources of XS-Leaks, such as:

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove the For example which is repeated 3 times and add something in `We can distinguish different sources of XS-Leaks, such as:` that specifies those are examples.

```suggestion
We can distinguish different sources of XS-Leaks and consequent causes, for example:
```

Reviewer: Hmm, I definitely agree that it is a bit repetitive but I think that diff changes the meaning of it. Because those examples aren't necessarily the "cause" of those categories, they're just examples of things within that category. 

We could just change it to something like:

```
1. Browser APIs (e.g. [Frame Counting]({{< ref "frame-counting.md" >}}) and [Timing Attacks]({{< ref "timing-attacks.md" >}}))
2. Browser Implementation Details and Bugs ([Connection Pooling]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/timing-attacks/connection-pool.md" >}}) and [typeMustMatch]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/historical/content-type.md#typemustmatch" >}}))
3. Hardware Bugs (Speculative Execution Attacks [^spectre])
```

Reviewer 2: Looks better

Reviewer: Added as a separate suggestion so resolving this one :+1:

> -   Browser APIs 
>     -   For example: [Frame Counting]({{< ref "frame-counting.md" >}}) and [Timing Attacks]({{< ref "timing-attacks.md" >}})
> 
> -   Browser Implementation Details and Bugs
>     -   For example: [Connection Pooling]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/timing-attacks/connection-pool.md" >}}) and [typeMustMatch]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/historical/content-type.md#typemustmatch" >}})
> 
> -   Hardware Bugs
>     -   For example: Speculative Execution Attacks [^spectre]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Browser APIs (e.g. [Frame Counting]({{< ref "frame-counting.md" >}}) and [Timing Attacks]({{< ref "timing-attacks.md" >}}))
2. Browser Implementation Details and Bugs (e.g. [Connection Pooling]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/timing-attacks/connection-pool.md" >}}) and [typeMustMatch]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/historical/content-type.md#typemustmatch" >}}))
3. Hardware Bugs (e.g. Speculative Execution Attacks [^spectre])
```

## A little bit of history

> XS-Leaks have always been part of the web platform but have only gained attention in recent years [^old-wiki] as websites became more secure against more traditional classes of vulnerabilities. In 2015 Gelernter and Herzberg published "Cross-Site Search Attacks" [^xs-search-first] which covered their work on exploiting timing attacks to implement XS-Search attacks against Google and Microsoft. From there, more XS-Leak techniques were discovered and tested over time. Recently, browsers have been working on developing a variety of new standards that will make it easier to defend applications against XS-Leaks.

Author: I agree, we wanted to mostly keep the current information existent in the wiki, and work on the History part in future iterations. @manuelvsousa would you like to take your shot on writing this? I like your plan for the section. 

I opened the issue https://github.com/xsleaks/wiki/issues/41 for that. If you don't feel like taking this one, we can rewrite the section to be less controversial.

> XS-Leaks have always been part of the web platform but have only gained attention in recent years [^old-wiki] as websites became more secure against more traditional classes of vulnerabilities. In 2015 Gelernter and Herzberg published "Cross-Site Search Attacks" [^xs-search-first] which covered their work on exploiting timing attacks to implement XS-Search attacks against Google and Microsoft. From there, more XS-Leak techniques were discovered and tested over time. Recently, browsers have been working on developing a variety of new standards that will make it easier to defend applications against XS-Leaks.

Reviewer: Fair enough, I wrote that blurb and it is just my personal impression (and largely unbacked by any real data). I think in my head, XS-Leaks became more interesting as other bugs that had greater impact became much rarer. For example, in my experience XSS bugs have become rarer (though still present) so the lesser impact of XS-Leaks have become more interesting. 

But happy to drop that bit if other people don't agree! 

Here a suggested edit is just to improve it a bit for now. 

```suggestion
XS-Leaks have always been part of the web platform but have gained attention in recent years [^old-wiki] as new techniques were found to increase their impact. [Timing attacks]({{< ref "network-timing.md" >}}) against the web have been discussed since at least [2000](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/352600.352606). In 2015 Gelernter and Herzberg published "Cross-Site Search Attacks" [^xs-search-first] which covered their work on exploiting timing attacks to implement high impact XS-Search attacks against Google and Microsoft. From there, more XS-Leak techniques were discovered and tested over time. Recently, browsers have been working on developing a variety of new standards that will make it easier to defend applications against XS-Leaks.
```

> XS-Leaks have always been part of the web platform but have only gained attention in recent years [^old-wiki] as websites became more secure against more traditional classes of vulnerabilities. In 2015 Gelernter and Herzberg published "Cross-Site Search Attacks" [^xs-search-first] which covered their work on exploiting timing attacks to implement XS-Search attacks against Google and Microsoft. From there, more XS-Leak techniques were discovered and tested over time. Recently, browsers have been working on developing a variety of new standards that will make it easier to defend applications against XS-Leaks.

Reviewer 2: LGTM

> XS-Leaks have always been part of the web platform but have only gained attention in recent years [^old-wiki] as websites became more secure against more traditional classes of vulnerabilities. In 2015 Gelernter and Herzberg published "Cross-Site Search Attacks" [^xs-search-first] which covered their work on exploiting timing attacks to implement XS-Search attacks against Google and Microsoft. From there, more XS-Leak techniques were discovered and tested over time. Recently, browsers have been working on developing a variety of new standards that will make it easier to defend applications against XS-Leaks.

Reviewer 2: We don't need to do #41, this is good enough for me

## About the wiki

This wiki is meant to both introduce readers to XS-Leaks and serve as a reference guide to experienced researchers exploiting XS-Leaks. While this wiki contains information on many different techniques, new techniques are always emerging. Improvements, whether to add new techniques or expand existing pages, are always appreciated!

## References
[^side-channel]: Side Channel Vulnerabilities on the Web - Detection and Prevention, [link](https://owasp.org/www-pdf-archive/Side_Channel_Vulnerabilities.pdf)
[^csrf]: Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF), [link](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/csrf)
[^STTF]: One of the examples for a feature with an accepted risk is [Scroll to Text Fragment]({{< ref "scroll-to-text-fragment.md" >}})
[^harmless]: Websites being able to interact and include resources from each other is a key part of how the web works. For example, many websites allow users to post content that includes images embedded from elsewhere on the web. Fundamentally, this is an intended behavior of the web. But, over time the downsides of this sort of interaction have become better understood.

> [^hard-to-fix]: It is challenging to fix the root cause of XS-Leaks because in many cases doing so would break existing websites.

Reviewer 2: Was this intended to be a footnote? It's lost in the middle of the references. Can't we move this to the middle of the relevant paragraph? It seems to be too much information to be in the end and it's unfriendly to the reader who has to flip back and forth to reach the full text and context.

Author: Maybe it's a good idea. WDYT @ddworken?

Reviewer 2: I want to add one thing. Since we have the References Section we can create the Footnotes Section above this one and move footnotes there. I just think in this particular case the footnotes are also a bit more then just footnotes :)

Reviewer: Yeah, moving it sounds good to me. IIRC it was originally in the paragraph and someone else suggested moving it.

Reviewer 2: I think the sentences are very good and super relevant so I would totally move them to the main text. Maybe STTF is the only acceptable footnote.

bookToc: false
---

# XS-Leaks Wiki
## Overview

> Cross-Site Leaks (XS-Leaks, XSLeaks) are a class of vulnerabilities derived from browser side-channel techniques [^side-channel]. These are similar to Cross-Site Request Forgery [^csrf] (CSRF, XSRF) techniques but instead of allowing other websites to take actions on behalf of a user, they can be used to infer information about them. This is done by utilising a variety of features built into browsers which are often maintained to preserve backwards compatibility. Though, sometimes new features are added to the browser despite an accepted risk of cross-site leaks [^STTF].

Author: While I believe the statement with `often` is true, because some features are being kept longer than the others (e.g. `frames.length` vs `XSS Auditor`, I know the latter is a bad example because it's not really backwards compability) I agree that `might be maintained` is a way better and safer way to express it.

## The principle of an XS-Leak

> Websites interacting with each other is core to the behavior of the web. Browsers provide a wide variety of interfaces for such interaction between different web applications. These interfaces have different security measures built on top to try to constrain websites behavior (e.g. the [Same-Origin Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy)). XS-Leaks take advantage of small pieces of information that can leak during these interactions in order to infer sensitive information about users. 

Author: ```suggestion
Websites interacting with each other is core to the behavior of the web. Browsers provide a wide variety of interfaces for such interaction between different web applications. These interfaces have different security measures built on top to try to constrain websites behavior (e.g. the [Same-Origin Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy)). XS-Leaks take advantage of small pieces of information that can leak during these interactions in order to infer sensitive information about users such as their data on other websites, operating systems they use or internal networks they are connected to. 
```

These pieces of information usually have a binary form and are called oracles. These oracles usually answer with *YES* and *NO* to cleverly prepared questions. For example, such an oracle could be asked:

> > Does a word *existent* exist in the search results?

Author: I don't see what changed? `a -> the`, or `*existent* -> "existent"`? What's the difference?

> > Does a word *existent* exist in the search results?

Author: Yes, it initially referred to `/?query=existent` which made more sense, but now it's split into example and is confusing. I will replace it with `secret`.

> > Does a word *existent* exist in the search results?

Author: Actually it's still presented below. I could maybe do `secret` vs `non-existent` instead `existent` vs `non-existent`, but I am unsure if that makes the explanation clearer.

> > Does a word *existent* exist in the search results?

Reviewer: Yeah, I think changing it to "secret" could help make it clearer. But I'll wait and make sure others agree. 

> Does the word "secret" exist in the search results?

In a vulnerable application, the above might be equivalent to:

> Does a query *?query=existent* return HTTP200 status code while *?query=non-existent* does not?"

The latter oracle could be formed from an [Error Event]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/error-events.md" >}}) XS-Leak and which could be abused by attackers to infer information about the user.

Browsers provide tons of different APIs that while well-intentioned, can end up leaking small amounts of information in an unintended way.

## Example

Websites are generally not allowed to access data on other websites. For example, *evil.com* is forbidden from explicitly reading a response from *bank.com*, but *evil.com* can attempt to load a script from *bank.com* since that was originally seen as harmless [^harmless]. However, *evil.com* can also determine whether or not the script successfully loaded.

{{< hint info >}}

Suppose that *bank.com* has an API endpoint that returns data about a user's receipt for a given query.

> 1. The page *evil.com* could attempt to load the URL *bank.com/my_receipt?q=groceries* as a script.

Reviewer 3: I would add that this will cause the browser to attack cookies.

> 1. The page *evil.com* could attempt to load the URL *bank.com/my_receipt?q=groceries* as a script.

Author: ```suggestion
1. The page *evil.com* could attempt to load the URL *bank.com/my_receipt?q=groceries* as a script, since by default , the browser will attach cookies with the request.
```

2. If the user has recently bought groceries, it will load successfully (because of the HTTP200 status code).
3. But if they haven't, it will trigger an [Error Event]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/error-events.md" >}}) (because of the HTTP404 status code) that *evil.com* can watch for.
4. By repeating this with different queries, the attacker could infer a significant amount of information about the user's transaction history.
{{< /hint >}}

In the above example, two websites on two different origins (*evil.com* and *bank.com*) were interacting through an API that browsers allow websites to use. None of this exploited a bug in the browser or a bug in *bank.com*. But nonetheless, it allowed *evil.com* to gain some small amount of information about the user on *bank.com*.  

## Root Cause of XS-Leaks

> The root cause of most XS-Leaks is inherent to the design of the web. Oftentimes, applications are vulnerable to some cross-site information leaks without having explicitly done anything wrong. Because it is hard [^hard-to-fix] to universally fix the root cause of XS-Leaks at the browser level, browsers are implementing various [Defense Mechanisms]({{< ref "defenses" >}}) that offer applications ways of mitigating some of the techniques. Many of these mitigations are used via websites opting into a more restrictive security model, usually through certain HTTP headers (e.g. *[Cross-Origin-Opener]({{< ref "./docs/defenses/opt-in/coop.md">}}): same-origin*), which often must be combined to achieve the desired outcome.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The root cause of most XS-Leaks is inherent to the design of the web. Oftentimes applications are vulnerable to some cross-site information leaks without having done anything wrong. Because it is hard [^hard-to-fix] to universally fix the root cause of XS-Leaks at the browser level, browsers are implementing various [Defense Mechanisms]({{< ref "defenses" >}}) that offer applications ways of mitigating some of the issues. Many of these mitigations are used via websites opting into a more restrictive security model, usually through certain HTTP headers (e.g. *[Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy]({{< ref "./docs/defenses/opt-in/coop.md">}}): same-origin*), which often times must be combined to achieve the desired outcome.
```

We can distinguish different sources of XS-Leaks, such as:

-   Browser APIs 
    -   For example: [Frame Counting]({{< ref "frame-counting.md" >}}) and [Timing Attacks]({{< ref "timing-attacks.md" >}})

-   Browser Implementation Details and Bugs
    -   For example: [Connection Pooling]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/timing-attacks/connection-pool.md" >}}) and [typeMustMatch]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/historical/content-type.md#typemustmatch" >}})

-   Hardware Bugs
    -   For example: Speculative Execution Attacks [^spectre]

## A little bit of history

> XS-Leaks have always been part of the web platform but have only gained attention in recent years [^old-wiki] as websites became more secure against more traditional classes of vulnerabilities. In 2015 Gelernter and Herzberg published Cross-Site Search Attacks [^xs-search-first] which covered their work on exploiting timing attacks to implement XS-Search attacks against Google and Microsoft. From there, more XS-Leak techniques were discovered and tested over time. Recently, browsers have been working on developing a variety of new standards that will make it easier to defend applications against XS-Leaks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
XS-Leaks have always been part of the web platform but have only gained attention in recent years [^old-wiki] as websites became more secure against more traditional classes of vulnerabilities. In 2015 Gelernter and Herzberg published "Cross-Site Search Attacks" [^xs-search-first] which covered their work on exploiting timing attacks to implement XS-Search attacks against Google and Microsoft. From there, more XS-Leak techniques were discovered and tested over time. Recently, browsers have been working on developing a variety of new standards that will make it easier to defend applications against XS-Leaks.
```

## About the wiki

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> This wiki is meant to both introduce readers to XS-Leaks and serve as a reference guide to experienced researchers exploiting XS-Leaks. While this wiki contains information on many different techniques, new techniques are always emerging. Improvements, whether to add new techniques or improve existing pages, are always appreciated!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This wiki is meant to both introduce readers to XS-Leaks and serve as a reference guide to experienced researchers exploiting XS-Leaks. While this wiki contains information on many different techniques, new techniques are always emerging. Improvements, whether to add new techniques or expand existing pages, are always appreciated!
```
I generally try to explain or expand on a concept by re-using the same word I used for that concept.

bookToc: false
---

# XS-Leaks Wiki
## Overview

Cross-Site Leaks (XS-Leaks, XSLeaks) are a class of vulnerabilities derived from browser side-channel techniques [^side-channel]. These are similar to Cross-Site Request Forgery [^csrf] (CSRF, XSRF) techniques but instead of allowing other websites to take actions on behalf of a user, they can be used to infer information about the user. This is done by utilising a variety of features built into browsers. These features are often maintained to preserve backwards compatibility though sometimes new features are added to the browser despite an accepted risk of cross-site leaks [^STTF].

## The principle of an XS-Leak

> Websites interacting with each other is core to the behavior of the web. Browsers provide a wide variety of interfaces for such interaction between different web applications. These interfaces have a wide variety of security measures built on top to try to constrain websites behavior (e.g. the [Same-Origin Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy)). XS-Leaks take advantage of small pieces of information that can leak during these interactions in order to infer sensitive information about users. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Websites interacting with each other is core to the behavior of the web. Browsers provide a wide variety of interfaces for such interaction between different web applications. These interfaces have different security measures built on top to try to constrain websites behavior (e.g. the [Same-Origin Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy)). XS-Leaks take advantage of small pieces of information that can leak during these interactions in order to infer sensitive information about users. 
```

Reviewer: Changing my own wording, but just want to avoid using the phrase "a wide variety of" twice in a row.

> Does a word *existent* exist in the search results?

In a vulnerable application, the above might be equivalent to:

> Does a query *?query=existent* return HTTP200 status code while *?query=non-existent* does not?"

The latter oracle could be formed from an [Error Event]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/error-events.md" >}}) XS-Leak and which could be abused by attackers to infer information about the user.

## Example

Websites are generally not allowed to access data on other websites. For example, *evil.com* is forbidden from explicitly reading a response from *bank.com*, but *evil.com* can attempt to load a script from *bank.com* since that was originally seen as harmless [^harmless]. However, *evil.com* can also determine whether or not the script successfully loaded.

{{< hint info >}}

Suppose that *bank.com* has an API endpoint that returns data about a user's receipt for a given query.

1. The page *evil.com* could attempt to load the URL *bank.com/my_receipt?q=groceries* as a script.

> 2. If the user has recently bought groceries, it will load successfully (because of HTTP200 status code).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the user has recently bought groceries, it will load successfully (because of the HTTP200 status code).
```

> 3. But if they haven't, it will trigger an [Error Event]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/error-events.md" >}}) (because of HTTP404 status code) that *evil.com* can watch for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. But if they haven't, it will trigger an [Error Event]({{< ref "./docs/attacks/error-events.md" >}}) (because of the HTTP404 status code) that *evil.com* can watch for.
```

> 4. By repeating this with different queries, the attacker could infer a significant amount of information about the user's transaction history

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. By repeating this with different queries, the attacker could infer a significant amount of information about the user's transaction history.
```

Just for consistency with the above steps

{{< /hint >}}

> In the above example, two websites on two different origins (*evil.com* and *bank.com*) were interacting through an API that browsers allow websites to use. None of this exploited a bug in the browser or a bug in *bank.com*. But nonetheless, it allowed *evil.com* to leak some small amount of information about the user on *bank.com*.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, two websites on two different origins (*evil.com* and *bank.com*) were interacting through an API that browsers allow websites to use. None of this exploited a bug in the browser or a bug in *bank.com*. But nonetheless, it allowed *evil.com* to gain some small amount of information about the user on *bank.com*.  
```
